# Project: Circuit Tracer

 - CS221-1
 - 12/10/2017
 - Nabil Rahman
 
## Screenshot



## Overview

The program reads searches for the shortest paths between start and end points on a circuit board as it reads data from an input file using either a stack or queue as underlying search state storage structure and displays output to either console or to a GUI panel according to options specified via command-line arguments from the user.

## Included files
 
 - CircuitBoard.java - Source file.
 - CircuitTracer.java - Source file.
 - CircuitTracerGUIPanel.java - Source file.
 - InvalidFileFormatException.java - Source file.
 - OccupiedPositionException.java - Source file.
 - Storage.java - Source file.
 - Style.java - Source file
 - TraceState.java - Source file. 
 - README - Readme file

## Compiling and running

 To compile the program

 $ javac CircuitTracer.java
 
 To run the program with stack implementation and print output on the console
 
 $ java CircuitTracer -s -c grid.dat
 
 To run the program with stack implementation and show output in a GUI
 
 $ java CircuitTracer -s -g grid.dat
 
 To run the program with queue implementation and print output on the console
 
 $ java CircuitTracer -q -c grid.dat

 To run the program with queue implementation and show output in a GUI
 
 $ java CircuitTracer -q -g grid.dat

## Design
 
 The driver class for the program is CircuitTracer. When an input file is provided to the program, 
 it parses the file and generates an object of the CircuitBoard class. Now, while generating the board,
 the program also validates if the data is formatted in the right way.

 When it's done generating the board, it starts tracing the states by finding open states adjacent to the 
 starting point and keeps building the path until it reaches the ending point.

 The traces are stored in a Storage object. The underlying data structure used inside the storage gets 
 decided based on user's choice. 

 After the tracing is done for all the valid states, it looks for the shortest path and stores it in an ArrayList.

 Then, the output is shown on the console or in a GUI panel based on user's preference.

 The provided CircuitTracerGUIPanel has all the GUI elements inside. It uses the Style class for the customized
 dark metro design I created.

 The rest of the classes, more specifically, InvalidFileFormatException and OccupiedPositionException are the 
 expection classes. An InvalidFileFormatException gets thrown when the input file is not formatted correctly. 
 The OccupiedPositionException is thrown if the CircuitTracer tries to change the value of an occupied position.

## Testing

 To test the program, I used the provided testprog shell script. The testprog script
 actually showed the difference between the expected result and the output provided
 by the program. The script showed that there was no difference.

 In addition to that, I also had to ensure if it generates output for all the sample
 circuit files. While running the program for the files, I had to fix some of the logics
 to make it work as expected. 

 For validation, I also had to try my program for all the invalid files as well. By having 
 a look at those invalid files, I was able to implement validation and exception handling 
 into my program properly.
 
## Discussion

 To me, the project was pretty challenging to complete. I felt that the instructions
 provided in the website wasn't clear enough. However, I understand why it was given 
 that way, mainly to challege us. 

 While writing the program, it took me a while to understand how the search algorithm
 is supposed to work. To understand the logic, I had to think about it, look for other
 sources, read all the javadoc provided in the files. 

 Though the project was challenging, I was able to learn a lot of new stuff from it.
 Basically this project made me use most of the concepts we learned in the class as it
 involved implementing ADTs, analyzing the provided algorithm, debugging, exception handling, 
 understanding how searching works and so on. 

## Extra credit

 For the extra credit, I implemented a GUI for the output generated by the program.
